OAuth documentation overhaul (#2300)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: docs/oauth/how-clerk-implements-oauth.mdx

This endpoint exposes all relevant details in a standardized JSON format.

A sample metadata document might look like this:

```json
{
  "issuer": "https://well-hagfish-71.clerk.accounts.dev",
  "authorization_endpoint": "https://well-hagfish-71.clerk.accounts.dev/oauth/authorize",
  "token_endpoint": "https://well-hagfish-71.clerk.accounts.dev/oauth/token",
  "jwks_uri": "https://well-hagfish-71.clerk.accounts.dev/.well-known/jwks.json",
  "response_types_supported": ["code"],
  "grant_types_supported": ["authorization_code", "refresh_token"],
  "token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported": ["client_secret_basic", "none"],
  "scopes_supported": ["openid", "profile", "email", "public_metadata", "private_metadata"],
  "subject_types_supported": ["public"],
  "id_token_signing_alg_values_supported": ["RS256"],
  "claims_supported": ["sub", "iss", "aud", "exp", "iat", "email", "name"],
  "service_documentation": "https://clerk.com/docs",
  "ui_locales_supported": ["en"],
  "op_tos_uri": "https://clerk.com/legal/standard-terms",
  "code_challenge_methods_supported": ["S256"]
}
```

> ### Building a Model Context Protocol (MCP) service using Clerk’s OAuth server

Reviewer: Just a note, once we run this release and have per-sdk guides, I think this will be a good candidate for lifting into its own page rather than a section

Here's how it works: instead of relying on a pre-shared secret, the client generates a random value called a **code verifier** at the start of each OAuth flow, along with a **code challenge**, which is a hashed version of the code verifier. The client sends the code challenge when starting the authorization flow, and later, during the token exchange, sends the original code verifier to prove it initiated the flow. The authorization service can then hash the code verifier to ensure it matches the code challenge.

This ensures that even if an attacker intercepts the authorization code, they can’t complete the token exchange without the original code verifier. Only the client that started the flow has that value.

> [!QUIZ]
> Couldn’t an attacker just steal the `code_verifier` from the browser (like from sessionStorage)?
>
> ---
>
> The key difference is _timing_ and _access_.
>
> The `code_verifier` only exists for the brief duration of the OAuth flow and is only accessible to the specific application that created it. A `client_secret`, on the other hand, would be permanently embedded in the app code where it could be extracted by anyone.
>

> > Additionally, each PKCE flow uses a unique `code_verifier`, so even if one was somehow compromised, it couldn't be reused for other users or future flows.

Reviewer 2: I love the content here, but I think it's slightly misleading because PKCE and public oauth applications are seperate things, and functionally are not related.

I think maybe we can frame to just be about PKCE, and use public oauth applications as a reason why it is useful for security? I don't know.

Author: ```suggestion
### Public clients and PKCE

In OAuth flows where a private server environment is available, the server can store and use a `client_secret` to securely exchange an authorization code for an access token. However, in mobile apps or single-page apps (SPAs), there is often no private server-side environment available to store the `client_secret` and run this exchange. These are called **public clients** because they cannot securely store secrets. Any secret you embed in a mobile app can be extracted by someone with the right tools, and anything in a browser-based app is visible to anyone who opens the developer tools, as well as browser extensions, etc.

To support these use cases, Clerk's OAuth implementation allows public clients to exchange an authorization code **without requiring a `client_secret`**. This makes it easier for mobile and browser-based applications to complete the token exchange and retrieve access and refresh tokens, without the risk of exposing long-lived secrets.

You can toggle the `Public` option in the settings for each OAuth app [on the Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=oauth-applications).

However, this process means **public clients** often need an additional layer of security to protect against interception attacks. This is where **[PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636)** comes in - PKCE helps secure public clients by replacing the `client_secret` with a dynamically generated proof that **only the client who started the OAuth flow can provide**

Here's how it works: instead of relying on a pre-shared secret, the client generates a random value called a **code verifier** at the start of each OAuth flow, along with a **code challenge**, which is a hashed version of the code verifier. The client sends the code challenge when starting the authorization flow, and later, during the token exchange, sends the original code verifier to prove it initiated the flow. The authorization service can then hash the code verifier to ensure it matches the code challenge.

This ensures that even if an attacker intercepts the authorization code, they can’t complete the token exchange without the original code verifier. Only the client that started the flow has that value.

> [!QUIZ]
> Couldn’t an attacker just steal the `code_verifier` from the browser (like from sessionStorage)?
>
> ---
>
> The key difference is _timing_ and _access_.
>
> The `code_verifier` only exists for the brief duration of the OAuth flow and is only accessible to the specific application that created it. A `client_secret`, on the other hand, would be permanently embedded in the app code where it could be extracted by anyone.
>
> Additionally, each PKCE flow uses a unique `code_verifier`, so even if one was somehow compromised, it couldn't be reused for other users or future flows.
```

Reviewer 2: Looks great!

### Scopes

Scopes define the level of access and specific user data that will be shared with the client application during authentication. The following scopes are currently available:

| Scope | Access |
| - | - |
| `profile` | Grant access to the user's personal information, such as first and last name, avatar, and username |
| `email` | Grant access to the user's email address |
| `public_metadata` | Grant access to the user's public and unsafe metadata |
| `private_metadata` | Grant access to the user's private metadata |
| `openid` | Enables the OpenID Connect flow |

> [!NOTE]
> Support for adding custom OAuth scopes is **not yet available**, but development is underway. The goal is to allow custom scopes to be added, accepted, and checked through Clerk SDKs. An update will be provided when this feature is available.
>
> For early access to custom OAuth scopes, please vote or provide feedback on the [roadmap here](https://feedback.clerk.com/roadmap?id=d2d88be9-4d4f-45e6-997e-61d0b2a34bc9).

### Token expiration and management

- OAuth access tokens expire after 2 hours
- Refresh tokens expire after 3 days
- Authorization codes expire after 10 minutes

> - OIDC `id_token`s expire after 1 hour

Author: Note for self: this needs to be updated

Author: This is what I've got:

auth code 10m
refresh token doesnt expire
access token 24h
id token 1h

If that is it - we need to change above

>
> - Attackers can create clients anonymously without audit trails.
> - Malicious clients can use legitimate-sounding names to trick users.
> - Administrative overhead increases substantially for monitoring and cleanup.
>
> Dynamic client registration is essential for scenarios like IoT device provisioning, developer platforms, and enterprise federation hubs where thousands of clients need to be created programmatically. However, it should only be enabled after carefully evaluating and accepting the associated security risks.
>
> Additionally, when dynamic client registration is enabled, the OAuth consent screen is automatically enforced and cannot be disabled - this prevents dangerous combinations that could lead to CSRF vulnerabilities.

## Consent screen management

The OAuth consent screen ensures users understand _exactly_ what permissions they're granting before completing the OAuth flow.

**The consent screen displays:**

- The requesting application's name and logo.
- Specific scopes being requested in user-friendly language.
- Clear accept/deny options.

![OAuth Consent Screen](/docs/images/oauth/oauth-consent-screen.png){{ style: { maxWidth: '400px' } }}

> In order to avoid breaking changes and security issues, Clerk has implemented the following settings with respect to the consent screen:

Author: The whole section about the consent screen or just the settings listed below?
